
                        Call for Papers

4th International Workshop on Distributed Event-Based Systems (DEBS '05)
           (http://www.cs.queensu.ca/~dingel/debs05)

                 Columbus, Ohio, June 10, 2005

GOAL
The purpose of this workshop is to bring together people from academia
and industry interested in the foundations, implementation, and
application of all aspects of event-based middleware, from traditional
topic-based and content-based publish-subscribe, to event correlation,
streaming queries, mediations, and systems integration. We seek
contributions from practitioners in industry and government, as well
as from academic and industrial researchers.

WORKSHOP THEME
Event-based systems are those in which information provided by
producers is distributed in a timely manner to interested consumers
via messaging middleware. These systems are seeing increasingly widespread
use, in applications ranging from time-critical systems, system management
and control, to e-commerce. Publish-subscribe services have been incorporated
into standards such as CORBA and JMS, and into commercial systems, such as
offerings of IBM and TIBCO.

Traditional event-based systems support subscriptions based on topics,
or based on filter predicates on message content; the middleware
service delivers copies of published messages to some subset of all
subscribers. An emerging new area of interest is the extension of
these services to include transformation, aggregation, and correlation
of events.

Many applications of this nature are built today by combining
publish-subscribe systems with other client-side systems to perform
the additional computation. The interest in these problems overlaps
with other system areas -- specifically streaming systems, continuous
query and continuous view update systems in databases, correlation
engines, and system monitoring and management tools. It is our goal to
provide cross-fertilization between researchers and practitioners in
these areas with researchers and practitioners in traditional
event-based middleware.

TOPICS
Topics include, but are not limited to:
   * Event-based models and paradigms
   * Middleware infrastructure
   * Integration
   * User experience and requirements
For more details, see the workshop web page at
www.cs.queensu.ca/~dingel/debs05

SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS
Papers do not have to be based on complete and comprehensive works. In
fact, we welcome position papers, requirements for real-world
applications, as well as papers based on preliminary results, provided
that they are forward-looking and that they remain well-argued and
justified in terms of existing work.

Submissions must conform to the ICDCS formatting guidelines (go to
http://www.cse.ohio-state.edu/icdcs05/ICDCS05submissions.html and follow
the instructions for "Formatting your Paper" but not for "Submitting
your Paper") and must not exceed six (6) pages, including all text,
references, appendices, and figures. Submissions must be in Portable
Document Format (PDF). Accepted papers will be published in the ICDCS
workshop proceedings by the IEEE.

Please submit your paper by e-mail to robstrom@us.ibm.com. Your
submission e-mail must contain the PDF file as a MIME attachment. The
sender of the submission will be the contact person, unless otherwise
requested in the submission.

Authors of accepted papers are expected to participate in the workshop.

LOCATION
The workshop will be held in Columbus, Ohio as a co-located workshop
of the 25th International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems
ICDCS 2005 (http://www.cse.ohio-state.edu/icdcs05/).

DATES
Deadline for paper submission                   24 January 2005
Decision to paper authors                       21 February 2005
Final version of accepted papers due             1 March 2005
DEBS 2005 workshop and on-site registration     10 June 2005

CO-CHAIRS
Juergen Dingel
School of Computing
Queen's University
Kingston, Ontario, Canada, K7L 3N6
phone: (613) 533-3071
email: dingel@cs.queensu.ca

Rob Strom
IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center
Yorktown Heights, NY, USA, 10598
phone: (914) 784-7641
email: robstrom@us.ibm.com

PROGRAM COMMITTEE
Jean Bacon, Cambridge University, UK
Jonathan Bosloy, Solace Systems, Canada
Antonio Carzaniga, University of Lugano, Switzerland and University of Colorado, USA
Ugur Cetintemel, Brown University, USA
Gianpaolo Cugola, Politecnico di Milano, Italy
Pascal Fenkam, Vienna University of Technology, Austria
Ludger Fiege, Darmstadt University of Technology, Germany
Harald Gall, University of Zurich, Switzerland
Rachid Guerraoui, EPFL, Switzerland
Annika Hinze, University of Waikato, New Zealand
Paola Inverardi, University of L'Aquila, Italy
Hans-Arno Jacobsen, University of Toronto, Canada
Mehdi Jazayeri, University of Lugano and Vienna University of Technology, Austria
Jean-Phillipe Martin-Flatin, University of Quebec in Montreal, Canada
Gero Muehl, Berlin University of Technology, Germany
Peter Pietzuch, Harvard University, USA
Robby, Kansas State University, USA
Joe Sventek, University of Glasgow, Scotland
Peter Triantafillou, University of Patras, Greece
Robert van Renesse, Cornell University, USA
